2.2 LED
=========

Overview
--------

In this lesson, you will learn how to use LED. LED is a kind of common
light-emitting device that works according to the principle that the
recombination of electron and hole releases energy to give out light.
This component is used widely in the current society, such as
illumination, panel display, medical device and so on.

Components Required
-------------------

.. image:: media/list_2.2.png


Component Introduction
----------------------

Semiconductor light-emitting diode is a type of component which can turn
electric energy into light energy via PN junctions. By wavelength, it
can be categorized into laser diode, infrared light-emitting diode and
visible light-emitting diode which is usually known as light-emitting
diode (LED).

.. image:: media/image422.png


Diode has unidirectional conductivity, so the current flow will be as
the arrow indicates in figure circuit symbol. You can only provide the
anode with a positive power and the cathode with a negative. Thus the
LED will light up.

An LED has two pins. The longer one is the anode, and shorter one, the
cathode. Pay attention not to connect them inversely. There is fixed
forward voltage drop in the LED, so it cannot be connected with the
circuit directly because the supply voltage can outweigh this drop and
cause the LED to be burnt. The forward voltage of the red, yellow, and
green LED is 1.8 V and that of the white one is 2.6 V. Most LEDs can
withstand a maximum current of 20 mA, so we need to connect a current
limiting resistor in series.

The formula of the resistance value is as follows:

.. image:: media/image423.png

R stands for the resistance value of the current limiting resistor,
**Vsupply** for voltage supply, **VD** for voltage drop and I for the working
current of the LED.

If we provide 5 voltage for the red LED, the minimum resistance of the
current limiting resistor should be: (5V-1.8v)/20mA = 160Ω. Therefore,
you need a 160Ω or larger resistor to protect the LED. **You are
recommended to use the 220Ω resistor offered in the kit**.

Schematic Diagram
-----------------

.. image:: media/image401.png


Fritzing Circuit
----------------

In this example, we use pin 9 to drive LED. Insert one side of the
resistor in the digital pin 9 and connect the longer pin (a positive
electrode, referred to as anode) of the LED with the other side of the
resistor. Extend the shorter pin (a negative electrode, referred to as
cathode) of the LED to GND.

.. image:: media/image30.png


Code
----

**Example 1：**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src=https://create.arduino.cc/editor/sunfounder01/6932f77a-37ea-422d-be9f-9b4d2eaa3571/preview?embed style="height:510px;width:100%;margin:10px 0" frameborder=0></iframe>

Finished uploading the codes to the Mega2560 board, you can see the LED flashing. Refer to **Part 1-1.2 Digital Write** to check the detail code explanation.

:ref:`1.2 Digital Write`

**Example 2：**

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src=https://create.arduino.cc/editor/sunfounder01/ba7aa4c7-7537-40af-bb9e-e849d6a722b5/preview?embed style="height:510px;width:100%;margin:10px 0" frameborder=0></iframe>

After uploading the codes to the Mega2560 board, you can see the LED
getting brighter, then turning off, getting brighter, then turning off
again...this loop will continue in this way. About the detail code
explanation, please refer to **Part 1-1.3 Analog Write**.

:ref:`1.3 Analog Write`

Phenomenon Picture
------------------

.. image:: media/image36.jpeg