2.3 RGB LED
===========

Overview
--------

In this lesson, you will learn about how to use RGB LED. A RGB LED
packages three LEDs in red, green and blue into one transparent or
semitransparent plastic shell. It displays a broad array of colors by
changing the input voltage of three pins and adding the three colors
together in different ways. As is said in a statistic, RGB LED can
create 16,777,216 different colors.

Components Required
-------------------

.. image:: media/list_2.3.png

Component Introduction
----------------------

RGB LEDs can be categorized into common anode and common cathode ones.
In this experiment, the latter is used. The common cathode, or CC, means
to connect the cathodes of the three LEDs. After you connect it with GND
and plug in the three pins, the LED will flash the corresponding color.

.. image:: media/image424.png


An RGB LED has 4 pins: the longest one is GND; the others are Red, Green
and Blue. Touch its plastic shell and you will find a cut. The pin
closest to the cut is the first pin, marked as Red, then GND, Green and
Blue in turn.

.. image:: media/image76.png


Or you can distinguish them in another way. As GND is the longest one
and can be defined directly, you just need to confirm the other three
pins. You can test it by giving them a small voltage. The forward
voltage drop from the three pins to the GND are respectively 1.8V (red),
2.5V (blue), and 2.3V (green). Thus, when you connect the same current
limiting resistor with the three pins and supply them with the same
voltage, the red one is the brightest, and then comes the green and the
blue one. Therefore, you may need to add a current limiting resistor
with different resistances to the three pins for these colors.

Fritzing Circuit
----------------

.. image:: media/image425.png


Here we input a value between 0 and 255 to the three pins of the RGB LED
to make it display different colors. After connecting the pins of R, G,
and B to a current limiting resistor, connect them to the pin 9, pin 10,
and pin 11 respectively. The longest pin (GND) of the LED connects to
the GND of the Mega 2560. When the three pins are given different PWM
values, the RGB LED will display different colors.

Schematic Diagram
-----------------

.. image:: media/image426.png


Code
----

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src=https://create.arduino.cc/editor/sunfounder01/3032b0a1-49e3-4d88-a73a-eeacf3761935/preview?embed style="height:510px;width:100%;margin:10px 0" frameborder=0></iframe>

Code Analysis
-------------

In this example, the function used to assign values to the three pins of RGB is packaged in an independent subfunction color().  

.. code-block:: arduino

    void color (unsigned char red, unsigned char green, unsigned char blue)// the color generating function  
    {    
    analogWrite(redPin, red);   
    analogWrite(greenPin, green); 
    analogWrite(bluePin, blue); 
    }

In loop(), RGB value works as an input argument to call the function color() to realize that the RGB can emit different colors.   

.. code-block:: arduino

    void loop()  // run over and over again  
    {    
    color(255, 0, 0); // turn the RGB LED red 
    delay(1000); // delay for 1 second  
    color(0,255, 0); // turn the RGB LED green  
    delay(1000); // delay for 1 second  
    color(0, 0, 255); // turn the RGB LED blue  
    delay(1000); // delay for 1 second 
    // ... 
    }  

Phenomenon Picture
------------------

.. image:: media/image79.jpeg